{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue233;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
{\info
{\title Guide to Running a Pop-Up Office}}\vieww16400\viewh13540\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 P2PU\cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}\ul What We Did\cf0 \ulnone \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}\ul Is It A Course? Is It a MOOC? Does It Matter?\cf0 \ulnone \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}\ul The Web As Platform\cf0 \ulnone \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}\ul Peer Learning, P2PU-style\cf0 \ulnone \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}\ul Co-designing a  Course, With Learners \cf0 \ulnone \
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 {\listtext	\'95	}\ul Reflections \cf0 \ulnone \
\pard\pardeftab720

\b\fs48 \cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa321
\cf0 \
Learning Creative Learning \'96 reimagining creative learning for the web. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Many Universities have experimented with MOOCs as a way of delivering content to large groups. But what happens when a grad school course is opened up for free online, with a  deliberately non-MOOC structure?\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 What We Did\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 Learning Creative Learning is a graduate course on learning technologies that has been running in the MIT Media Lab for several years.  Taught by Mitch Resnick from the Lifelong Kindergarten Group, it\'92s traditionally been targeted primarily at a small group of students from the MIT Media Lab and Harvard Graduate School of Education. The course runs over 11 weeks, and covers topics such as Social Creativity, Motivation and Persistence, and Constructionism and Making. \
In February 2013, P2PU and the team at the Lifelong Kindergarten decided to conduct a giant experiment - we wanted to tinker with the MOOC model, and see if it was possible to still learn in a socially connected way, and work on smaller projects within a large online course, rather than passively absorb lectures. Might we be able, we asked ourselves, to transfer the small, intimate, interactive experience online, and preserve it even if thousands or tens of thousands of people signed up?  So we decided to run Learning Creative Learning online, at the same time as it ran in real life. We made sure it was free, easy to access, and invited the world to sign up.\
One thing everyone realised fairly early on was that there was no blueprint for how to do this. While many institutions have opened up their courseware, or run MOOCs, nobody had tried to integrate an online and offline community in quite the same way, or designed the courses with the objective of facilitating personal interaction.  The first question was how to adapt the content, which is usually designed to be taught as a small seminar and project-based course with 15-25 students. Without a clear idea of who would be signing up (teachers? students? technologists? firefighters?) the final decision was to adapt how materials were presented, and how interaction was encouraged, rather than re-creating content. In order to keep access as easy as possible, and keep development costs down, the course didn\'92t have custom platforms or portals, but used open source software and tools that are freely available on the web. 
\b \

\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 Is It A Course? Is It a MOOC? Does It Matter?
\b0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 Even before the course was launched, the organisers had a sense of who they thought might sign up. \'93We interact with a lot of really interesting people in very light [ie: minimal]  ways - and don't have the time to interact with them a lot. But we\'92re pretty sure great things could happen if they could interact with each other,\'94 explains Lifelong Kindergarten group head at the Media Lab, Mitch Resnick. \'94It became clearer as we went on that one of the things the course was doing was gathering like-minded people who had shared interests and letting them interact with each other.\'94
\b \

\b0 \
The mass-nature of a MOOC means that content which might be meaningful in a  face-to-face context may not resonate in the same way online.  So the organisers made sure to ask participants to respond to questions like \'93What is one thing you were interested in as a child" to help online participants to immediately establish personally meaningful connections - a learning approach which is part of the Lifelong Kindergarten learning approach, which was being implemented in the face-to-face course as well. \
Each week both sets of participants were asked to work on an activity that introduced the topic of the week. Weekly seminars which were taking place in the face-to-face course, were opened up as hour-long video seminars, which allowed online participants to join in real-time, and online students were able to use a backchannel chat tool so that they could talk to each other during the seminars. This allowed for conversations that often probed into the subject more deeply and occasionally participants found that the conversations with one another were more interesting than the seminars themselves.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b\fs36 \cf0 The Web as Platform
\b0  \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs24 \cf0 While many MOOC projects spend a great deal of time and money developing new platforms, we preferred to avoid this, and rather made use of tools that are freely available on the web. One of the ones we decided to experiment with was Google Plus. We created a Google Plus community, which allowed online participants to have a space to talk to each other and share what they were working on, and encouraged them to form smaller groups within that. It turns out people like big communities, but they also like smaller groups - where they get to know each other more deeply.  More than 450 groups formed, some based around location, others based around interests. This approach wasn\'92t just a useful way of organising materials and people - by creating smaller groups, the learning experiences were instantly more meaningful to a large number of people. \'93Having people applying everything to themselves right away and going out and trying something each week was useful,\'94 explains Natalie Rusk \'93That's why I liked going back and checking the G+community because you got to see people uploading pictures and saying \'91I tried this with these people and here are the results\'92\'94\
The Google platform also allowed for a successful transfer of the Media Lab\'92s individual-oriented style of learning, onto the Web, while not having to worry about the potential risks of scale. By creating smaller communities online, the course was able to mitigate the lost-in-a-crowd scenario that arises in many MOOCs. \
\'93We weren't that interested in scale - we designed for connections and generosity,\'94 says Philipp. \'93The fact that 25,000 people signed up was great, but the numbers can be distracting.\'94 \
While scale may not have been a design objective of the organisers, it was something that influenced the way the course evolved. Although the course was designed in a way that maximised connections and generosity in interactions, when we realised that  signups were heading into the thousands (ultimately, over 25,000 people signed up for the course), rather than the hundreds, as anticipated, we also realised that our expectations of how the course would work would have to change. \'93At a certain point I realised that there was no way we could be the facilitators for that many people,\'94 says Mitch. Rather than telling groups which tools to use, or suggesting how to assign moderators, we let things emerge. \'93I had to let go at a certain point and then I really understood what peer-to-peer learning was,\'94 says Natalie Rusk, Research Specialist in the Lifelong Kindergarten Group and a co-organiser of the course. \'93I realised that my role was about highlighting the people who were doing the creating.\'94 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b\fs36 \cf0 Peer Learning, P2PU-style\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b0\fs24 \cf0 Not only did the participants learn a lot from each other - organisers learnt from participants too.  One week, everyone was asked to go out into physical learning spaces and report back, and the group discovered new spaces and interesting ideas that many had never considered before.  Some participants started learning within their local context, including with and from their families. For one task, participants were asked to develop a computer program in the Scratch programming environment, and one participant, Cecilia Trevino wrote: "I found this activity challenging and I asked help from my daughter. She said the project was far too ambitious for me." The impact of this community was felt particularly strongly during the week after the Boston Bombings. MIT was locked down for a few hours, and anxiety levels in the city and on campus was high. But the organisers were surprised by the support messages from the online community - it had evolved from being a course to a community of people who took an interest, not only in each others' learning, but in each others' lives.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b\fs36 \cf0 Co-designing a Course, with Learners
\b0  \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\fs24 \cf0 Right from the outset, the organiser\'92s mantra was "this is an experiment, and we invite everyone to experiment with us and make it work". By framing the course,  as a prototype, rather than a final product, we were able to manage our own expectations as well as those of the participants. Anxieties around how to facilitate or interact with so many people were quickly put to rest when many of the participants told us that the experimental aspect was their favourite part of the experience.\
\
Framing the course as an experiment didn\'92t mean, however, that careful planning work didn\'92t go into the lead-up. \'93We had lots of conversations which teased out the anxieties we had,\'94 Philipp explains. \'93The things that I felt excited about, like how to get it big, how to get diverse people involved and how to hand over some control, meant that we had to figure out what kinds of things we wanted to be careful with, so that we weren\'92t just throwing open the doors and letting chaos happen.\'94 Letting people know right from the outset that we didn\'92t have all  the answers in advance meant that whenever technical hitches came up, as they invariably did  participants responded to each other by saying "Remember, they said from the start that this was a prototype" which allowed the community to have a sense of ownership over the experiment, its successes and its failures. \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa298

\b\fs36 \cf0 Reflections\
\pard\pardeftab720

\b0\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 This experiment involved transferring the experience of a small, specialist, university course into an massive, open, online experience. However, we learned many lessons that would be of interest more broadly, to anyone looking to transfer an existing course into an online environment. In every experiment, some results are more immediately clear than others. In Learning Creative Learning, managing the question of transfer, or how something learnt in one context can be used in another, was a challenge - just as it is in face-to-face learning. Current research on the subject shows that transfer happens most often if people are explicitly engaged in thinking about the transfer while they learn. In order to facilitate this, at the beginning of each of the video sessions, online participants were asked to share what they had come up with in the previous week, which allowed people to show how they were transferring their learning, but also encouraged interactivity within the group. There was a lot of discussion about taking risks, experimenting, failure and motivation and many of the participants reported back that these conversations helped them to rethink their classes, or projects they were doing themselves as teachers.  \
\
\
Unlike many online courses, Learning Creative Learning was designed to allow people to finish with a portfolio of work, rather than a certificate of completion. Portfolios offer more nuanced and in-depth presentations of learning. But in many ways, it was the unexpected results that made the course rewarding for the organisers and the participants alike. At education conferences throughout the year, people have been meeting up face-to-face as a result of the course, and these lasting relationships defy the MOOC model. The post-course activity has also been surprising. Italian participants organised a makers fair, and the Google Plus community is still active. For many teachers, working in environments where budgets are being cut and innovation is discouraged, the community is not simply community for the sake of it, but also about holding on to their vision of what is possible in education, and sharing their struggles with others.\
\
Making the case for the value of large online courses, particularly within institutions that are often seen as being part of the ivory tower establishment, and where a lot of the rhetoric takes the form of "we're going to teach the rest of the world" can be difficult. But this course has shown that there is value in opening up, engaging with communities and learning from them. \
\
The course will run again in the Spring semester of 2014, and  we\'92re already thinking about how to make improvements. The live video sessions were stressful for those who were speaking, and talking to people in the room and online sometimes left speakers unsure of who they were speaking to. We\'92re already working on new technology which will allow us to mitigate this. The plan is also to allow participants to self-organise a little more, and form their own groups using a variety of tools.  \
\
As a proof-of-concept, Learning Creative Learning did what it set out to, proving that university-level, seminar-style courses can be opened up and taught face-to-face and online simultaneously. But more than that, it was an experiment in community building between online and offline learning communities, which, depending on one\'92s perspective either broke the MOOC model, or, as we like to think, fixed it. \
\
Want To Know More? \
A lot of the learning, interaction and materials from Learning Creative Learning is online and free to use. \
If you want an overview of the course, to get a rough idea of what we did, take a look at the course page [.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://learn.media.mit.edu/course.html%5D"}}{\fldrslt http://learn.media.mit.edu/course.html]}}\
To find out more about the syllabus, download the readings, and see the videos of the sessions, take a look at the syllabus page [.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://learn.media.mit.edu/syllabus.html%5D"}}{\fldrslt http://learn.media.mit.edu/syllabus.html]}}\
We asked all the online participants to introduce themselves to the group via a video. We got some awesome stuff - have a look at them all here [www.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://learn.media.mit.edu/participants.html%5D"}}{\fldrslt http://learn.media.mit.edu/participants.html]}}\
The wonderful G+ community is still active, proving that learning never stops. You can see the discussions, and join in here [www.{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://plus.google.com/u/1/communities/106132864609383396284%5D"}}{\fldrslt https://plus.google.com/u/1/communities/106132864609383396284]}}\
\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 
\f0  \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b \cf0 What is P2PU?
\b0 \
The Peer 2 Peer University is a grassroots open education project that organizes learning outside of institutional walls and gives learners recognition for their achievements. P2PU creates a model for lifelong learning alongside traditional formal higher education. Leveraging the internet and educational materials openly available online, P2PU enables high-quality low-cost education opportunities.\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240

\b \cf0 Some of our Supporters
\b0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf0 
\f0 \

\f1 
\f0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240
\cf0 \
}